And so what I wanted to do now is just
dig into a few things that are possible
with serverless.
Because we looked at one kinda practical
use case, right this is like the content
management system use case where you have
data that you need to read and write from.
You need to control access to that data,
and you maybe want to enhance
that data using a third party API,
which is what we are doing here,
by pulling in these ratings
from different services.
So, to look at a few other things that
we can do, let's start digging in and
just look at some examples, we'll play
with them and talk through how they work.
So one of the most common examples that
you're gonna see is form submissions.
They're a really default case for
using serverless functions.
And if we look at, for example, my site,-
>> Mmh.
>> And we go to the newsletter,
and we put in like we can sign up,
I think here,-
>> Me.
>> This is all managed through
a serverless function,
this is all set up in my site.
If we look at the code here,
the form submissions
all come through a function and
I use my ConvertKit form ID.
I send it to their API
endpoint with my form ID,
I grab out the first name and
email out of the form.
And then I send this off.
And once it comes back,
assuming things went well,
I send a 301 to the success page,
which is the one that we're looking at
here that says, please check your email.
If something goes wrong,
then I send a 500.
And we try to figure out what happened.
But unless the ConvertKit API is down,
we should never end up here.
So this is one kinda standard use,
another very standard
use that you'll see Is to do some
kind of interaction or things.
So this would be a Like button or
a star or some kind of favorite.
Josh Comeau has a really good
implementation of this that just
makes me smile, where he has this heart.
And he's done a very good job of making
his site very interactive as well.
[SOUND] So as we save this,
you can see,- [SOUND] Each one of
those incremented this event and
I'm almost positive that this one is
done through a serverless function.
And we can see here that that persisted,
it got saved back somewhere.
And so every time we click,
that click event gets handled and
sent off to an endpoint and
that endpoint is a serverless function.
That is a really really nice use case,
it's super fun.
I think his site is just charming in
general, I don't know if you've had
a chance to ever look at Josh Comeau's
site but it is very fun.
And it's a good time,
go play with that one for sure.
Another thing that you'll see
serverless functions used,
this is where you start looking away from
UI and interaction and toward performance.
Why does serverless function
provide an advantage?
It's easy for
me to build as a front end developer.
How's it gonna benefit me?
How's it gonna give me
performance enhancements?
How's it gonna give me more power?
And a good example of that is processing.
So if you look at something
like a gatsby build,
when gatsby builds,
it's gonna put together all the data,
all the images, all the files on your
site, and then it needs to process those.
And by default, this is done on a single
machine, which means that they have
to happen not entirely synchronously but
pretty close to it.
Where each thing needs to get
processed and it has to wait for
all of that work to get done.
But if you use serverless functions,
you can instead of having to do that
work on a single machine in a stack,
you can flip that work sideways and
have one function do one bit of work.
And just fire up hundreds or potentially
thousands of these, to do all of that work
at the same time across multiple machines
and then send those results back.
So that you can decrease your
processing time to almost
nothing as long as the server
execution takes or
that function execution takes for
the slowest execution.
But all of the data happens
at the exact same time,
all the work happens at
exactly the same time.
And that means that you
can take something that,
if one processor could have done
all that work in an hour but
it's 10,000 jobs, you can just
run 10,000 serverless functions.
And it happens in a second or
a few seconds as opposed to that
full hour of work being done.
An example of this is
the gatsby-parallel-runner.
Gatsby worked out a way to do external
jobs, which means that they take work,
I think by default,
all they support is images.
And the image processing instead
of being done in the gatsby build,
can be handed off to an external process.
And if you set up a whole bunch of
serverless functions to handle those
external processes,
gatsby can take the images and
say one image gets processed
by one serverless function.
And do all of them at once,
or huge batches of them at once to
significantly decrease the time.
And you can see what this actually takes,
if we look at some examples here.
I think there's, it looks like
they pulled the comparison down.
But so, what's happening here is
you've got a queue that's running.
And the example of getting
this thing actually built,
it takes like 40% of the time,
30% of the time of what it would
take to build on the same machine.
And that's by taking those
gatsby image processing jobs.
And instead of putting them in one
big stack, you flip it sideways and
you run across a bunch of
serverless functions at once.
And that gives you a huge amount of power,
a huge processing speed boost.
And you can apply this to a lot of things,
you can do this if you had to refactor
a database and you needed to process
every entry in that database.
If you were gonna do that sequentially,
you'd have potentially millions of jobs,
right.
That would take a long time.
But if you took each entry and
ran it through a serverless function,
then you could parallelize that and
run all of the entries at once.
And get all that data back and
then drop it into your migrated database.
And that gives you a huge performance
boost and the cost is pretty low, right?
You'll spend a few dollars for
a million function executions.
And that gives you a whole bunch of
power in your ability to do things.
Well, this one's more of a fun example and
then I'll show you another practical one.
But if you look at the learn
with Jason website or
if you've ever watched my my live stream,
you might recognize this screen here.
This is a screen that you would see if
you were looking at me talking my videos,
not on right now.
So it's just a blank box.
But one thing that you can do with
my show is when you're watching,
you can fire up the chat and
you can participate.
So if I say something like hello,
it shows up down here, right?
And it's like a vendor, it's IRC.
But what I can also do is I can
trigger serverless functions.
So when I run this command here,
the exclamation point grow.
What I'm doing is I'm actually
running a serverless function.
And that is causing this
interaction to happen on the page.
And that's all through
serverless function.
So if I take a peek at the learn
with Jason.dev we can see this
grow function here.
And this grow function is
part of the Stream Blitz,
Stream Blitz is an app that I built,
that's for Twitch streaming.
But it just sends back what should
happen when you do this thing and
it handles a command.
And then my scene over
here is listening for
the result of that serverless function,
and it will do something with it.
So I can also do something
like trigger a sound [COUGH].
And that is if I'm trying to do
something and I'm doing it wrong, and
the chat has posted the answer and
I'm not paying attention.
They can run that sound effect to alert me
and draw my attention back to the chat.
So that I see that they've
given me the solution and
I'm burning minutes on the stream.
So that's all run out of
a serverless function as well.
So we can see here that the ahem
function is the same thing.
It's a serverless handler that uses
the Stream Blitz framework and then sends
back the sound that should be played and
the image that should be played.
And how long it should stay on screen.
And that gives me the ability
to interact with a live
audience without having to
write a whole bunch of code.
Instead, I can just define
the sound effects and
people can participate on the stream.
It's a whole lot of fun and gives us
a whole lot of flexibility on the stream.
And it lowers the barrier to entry for
someone to build these types of
interactions because they can just set up.
If they use something like Stream Blitz,
they just write this serverless functions
and then they have listeners that will,
by default this kind of play with
the audio and image that just works.
They don't have to write any code,
they don't have to do anything.
It'll just happen, it just plays.